This has to be clear from the very beginning.
These pictures are not pretty, but they are real.
We shot this film on the streets of Southern California during the past few weeks.
The people you see are not actors.
This is not make-believe.
You're seeing the real thing.
You're looking at yourself, your time, your kids perhaps, or your neighbors.
These youngsters have several things in common.
They're quite young.
They live in or around Los Angeles, and they're in trouble with the law.
When that happens, we get headlines like these.
Books are written with sensational titles and lurid illustrations.
And lately, movies have been made, because kids in trouble are red-hot at the box office.
Again today, a shocking story of juvenile crime that has people everywhere shaking their
heads, asking how and why.
More of those big headlines, teenage killing, rich boy held in $19 murder.
It's the story of Eric Bass, the 16-year-old son of a millionaire, a rich man's son who came
to Los Angeles and drifted to Skid Row.
He took up with three young puffs, went out on a night of crime that ended in murder.
A grim reminder that delinquency is not limited by family, or position, or wealth.
Almost the only youngsters we hear about or read about are those who do get in trouble.
Because the kids say those who've messed up with the law, because of this emphasis on the
bad, too many people think the juvenile and delinquency are the same.
But the facts, as we find them, prove otherwise.
And that's the point of this series to bring the facts into focus.
So, program one of Focus on Delinquency.
It was a special report from the KNXT Department of Public Affairs.
Look at them, the teenagers of this generation.
It's not important that these kids live in Southern California.
Here or anywhere else, they come in all sizes, all shapes, all colors.
The experts say they're biggers, smarter, and healthier than their parents.
The best generation yet.
Despite the screaming headlines, the lurid books and movies, the prejudice of many adults,
the experts insist that these youngsters get into less trouble than their parents did.
Does that surprise you?
Do you think it is not true?
Are you thinking now about the rat tax?
The juvenile crimes of theft and dope addiction.
Rape and sometimes murder.
That's the stuff that makes the headlines alright, but it's not the whole start.
These are the typical youngsters.
They like fast games.
They play hard and fast, the faster the better.
Speed is the byword of this generation.
They like fast cars.
They like to drive them or watch other people drive them.
In school, they learn quickly and they have more to learn.
And in their free time, they dance to some of the fastest music that's ever been popular,
like this.
To get the facts, we started at the new police building.
We met with the man who knows most about the crime picture in this area, Chief of Police,
William H. Parker.
When Senator Keep-Hobber was in town recently, Chief, what did you tell him about the juvenile
crime picture in this area?
Well, I told Senator Keep-Hobber that in reality, adult misbehavior was a greater problem
to us than us, and us, and us, that juvenile misbehavior, as reflected by our arrest statistics.
There has been a 9% increase in adult arrests so far in 1955, but only a 6% increase in juvenile
arrests, so that actually the adult problem is more serious than the juvenile problem.
You still don't believe it?
Well, the picture is much the same from different angles.
So from Chief Parker, we went to Carl Holton, Chief Probation Officer for Los Angeles County,
recognized everywhere as one of the top men in his field.
Can you tell us, sir, what's the juvenile crime picture now?
Is the rate up or down?
And what's the outlook, as you see it?
Well, the rate has been levelling off in California, particularly here in Los Angeles County
for the last two years, and the last year we had for the first time in a long time an
actual decrease in the number of juvenile court findings.
We feel that it's on the whole picture is steadily improving.
To pin it down even tighter, let's check the record.
The police say that only 2.4% of our children get into trouble with the law.
Turn that around.
It means nearly 98% of the kids don't get in trouble.
It's true that in the past 10 years, the number of crimes by kids has gone up 31%.
A shocking figure.
But look also at the increase in the number of youngsters in those same 10 years, up 41
percent.
The crime total has gone up, but not as much as the population.
And here's the important point.
The rate of crime has gone down from about 22 per thousand in 1944 to fewer than 18 per
thousand last year.
Most offenses are what the police call crimes against person or property.
Theft, robbery, assault.
Most common teenage crime, GTA is the kids call it Grand Theft Auto.
Then comes traffic offenses and sex delinquency.
Narcotics you'll be surprised to learn is very near the bottom of the list.
The people of this area can be proud of their kids.
The picture looks pretty good.
But even that 2% cannot be ignored.
Think of it.
10,000 youngsters a year in trouble with the law in Los Angeles County alone.
10,000 flexible young minds.
10,000 children easily influenced for good or for bad.
We're used to hearing about crime among adults, but we're shocked by juvenile crime.
And rightly so, it could be your youngster or mine.
And another thing, the juvenile problem cost Los Angeles nearly 9 million dollars a year.
A staggering bill and it's paid by the taxpayer out of your pocket and mine.
These are the reasons why tonight and for the next 5 weeks, we're going to study the
youngsters of this area and the world they live in.
We'll spend a lot of time with the kids who fill the lockups and courtrooms and forestry
paths.
But we'll look at the other side too, the kids who don't get in trouble.
We'll try to answer the biggest question of all, why do kids get in trouble?
We'll show you what happens when they do and we'll try to find out who's to blame.
In all juvenile cases, the first official contact is made by the police, the youngsters first
contact with authority.
In Los Angeles, all cases involving kids go to the juvenile division.
Men and women carefully selected, specially trained to work with youngsters.
They don't wear uniforms, their cars are unmarked.
Let's follow a typical trouble call.
It's an on-the-spot investigation, with the officers talking to all those involved to
learn exactly what happened.
Perhaps a fight over a girl or a car.
It may surprise you to learn that in most cases, 80 to 90 percent of them, it ends right
here.
The officers restore order, the group is broken up and the kids sent home.
But when the trouble is serious, the kids are questioned, thoroughly searched, booked
at the station and their parents are notified.
These boys are taken into the Lincoln Heights station for further questioning a closer study
of the case.
I said thoroughly searched.
The officers know just how to find the tiny grains of marijuana that stick to a pocket
line.
And these are deadly weapons in the real sense of the word.
This is another deadly weapon.
That's right, it's a can opener.
But whenever the police shake down a gang of kids, they end up with a box full of these,
with the edges filed razor sharp, it's a vicious weapon.
And a lot of youngsters who don't get in fights carry them anyhow as a kind of pocketpiece.
And the kids have a wild and scary name for it, they call it a church key.
Most of the time, the youngsters are sent home with their parents.
But if the trouble is big, if there's any reason to think the kid may run away, or if
his home is such that he's better off out of it, that means a trip to juvenile hall.
Juvie, as the kids call it, on East Lake Avenue in the shadow of General Hospital East
of Downtown.
There's one side for boys, the other side for girls.
When a juvenile arrives, he has a police escort.
He's taken from the car inside to the reception desk.
There his papers are waiting, and there the police check him in.
Then he's turned over to the probation officer, and the man in charge starts asking questions.
Hi, Felicia.
We're facing you from East Long, Danielis.
There are the papers for Edward Smith.
Eddie Smith, yeah, the office call we've been expecting, yeah.
Thanks a lot, fellas.
Oh, hi, Eddie.
Sit on, son.
Sit down.
Right, your Edward Smith?
Yes, sir.
My name is Sirot Eddie.
I'm one of the intake and detention control officers of the Los Angeles County Prohibition Department.
My job is to interview all the boys that have brought the juvenile hall.
This is the boys introduction to juvenile hall.
He'll have more interviews, he'll answer many more questions.
At that time, take a good look at juvenile hall.
For the odds are you've never been there.
For that matter, this is the first time television has ever been allowed inside.
Built by the County of Los Angeles in 1953, juvenile hall is the biggest and most modern facility of its kind in the entire nation.
It's clean and not crowded.
The food is good, and there's plenty of it.
Better food, in fact, than many of these boys ever had on the outside.
On the girls side of the hall, there's lots of open space, green and airy, room for outdoor activities, gains of all kinds.
Though, as you can see, the smog in that part of town is sometimes pretty thick.
The hall has its own chapel, a beautiful modern building that offers services of all faiths.
And again, gains.
The idea is to keep the youngsters busy and keep them out of trouble.
And again, the smog.
These are the older girls.
But some of the inmates are awfully young. Some are still playing with dolls.
You find many good things to say about juvenile hall, and certainly its greatest asset is its staff, headed by superintendent David Bogan.
We met many of the men and women who worked there. We were struck by their intelligence and their understanding of the troubled young minds and bodies put in their care.
The program includes fine, well-equipped classrooms and up-to-date teaching methods.
Some of the teaching is quite basic, like this.
Character is what you are.
Reputation is what people say you are.
Class is in painting. And time for study.
From class to class, the young inmates march. For boys, there are things like woodshop.
And the music class. They tell us it helps the kids unwind.
Oh, I love, I darling, I want you for your class.
I love you, my love.
Time goes by. From the days of the years of your time.
I need your love. I need your love. I need your love.
I need your love. I need your love. To me.
Time goes by so slowly for the youngsters in juvenile hall.
Juby is clean and modern and it is copied by cities all around the country.
And while there are no bars on the windows, the heavy steel screens are just as effective.
There is one thing you can't forget. With all the well-kept plants and carefully-tended grounds, you still can't get out.
The gates and doors are always locked. All in all, as nice a jail as you can find, but it's still a jail.
A glimpse of juvenile hall. Now let's see how it works.
Take the case of a young cart thief named Eddie Smith. You saw him arriving a few minutes ago.
That name isn't real, but the boy is and so is his problem.
California laws as a juvenile can be held no more than 72 hours before he gets a hearing in court.
That gives the probation department just three days to make a quick investigation of the case and the circumstances around.
The boy and his family and his offense. And then the boy is on his way to his first meeting with the court.
This will be a predetention hearing. Eddie and his fellow offenders travel a long and well-protected route from juvenile hall to the courtroom.
Stairways and corridors all fenced and locked against a scheme.
At the end of Eddie's journey, he'll meet the presiding judge of the juvenile court William B. McKesson.
The probation officers first report his already on the judge's desk.
And the question before the court of this preliminary hearing is whether the youngsters should be sent home or kept a juvenile hall.
Full investigation takes two or three weeks and it's this time that's at stake. Does Eddie go home or stay at Juve?
Predeention hearings as they're called are held by Judge McKesson and this is a typical day in his courtroom.
Prompoli at 9 a.m. the judge enters and let me tell you again this is not make believe.
RKNXT cameras were right there as Judge McKesson opened Juvenal Court for another day's business.
So I'm going to have a case to have when I'll predetention Caledity this morning.
We have two girls and five boys, Your Honor.
I see you have one more girl that's been scratched off of something.
I've been taken care of from her way.
I worked out other arrangements on that. The girl is going to be covered by the field probation officer.
She's not in detention.
She is being detained but the field officer is going to get a detaining order instead of putting an unpretentious morning.
Are the parents of these boys and girls here as far as you know?
Yes, they're ugly. They are.
You say we have two girls and four boys, let's take the boys first then this morning instead of the girls.
So Mr. Longville, if you'll tell the bailout to bring in the first boy please.
Yes, Your Honor.
The law says names or identifying details in Juvenal Court matters cannot be revealed.
So what you see now is a composite case, names and facts scrambled to prevent identification.
But the setting is real, the people are real and so is the prompt.
No play acting here, if you've ever been to Juvenal Court with a youngster in trouble, this will be painfully authentic.
You made a ward of our Juvenal Court.
Juvenal Court, Joe, it is not a criminal court.
It is a court of protection.
The petition has been filed not against you, but in your behalf, asking to have you made a ward of the Juvenal Court.
The Constitution of the United States and of this state guarantee you certain rights which are applicable to this court even though it's not a criminal court.
You're entitled here to have any person who testifies as a witness in the case, a do so in your presence so if you can be there and hear what they say,
you're entitled to be represented by an attorney today or at any other time to connect some of these proceedings if you and your parents want an attorney.
And you're entitled to have an early hearing on the matter.
His pre-attention this morning, Mr. and Mrs. Smith has three purposes.
One is to advise Eddie the contents of the petition that is telling why he's here.
Secondly, to set a date for a hearing on that petition, and then thirdly for the court to determine as a judicial matter whether Eddie should be detained in custody or released home or face someplace else.
Between now and the date of the hearing, under our law, it is the obligation of the probation officer of the county to make a full investigation in a written report to the court before we can have our hearing.
Now, I'd end the read to petition to you. I'll ask you whether the statements are true or not true in this petition.
The petition says, in honor of about the 27th June of this year, you took a 1951 Cadillac, lies in number X41327, away from 1423 18th Street in Santa Monica without the permission of the owner.
All of which is in violation of Section 503 of the vehicle code of the State of California.
Is that true or not true? Say there is.
Our interpretation admitted and the sub-tameter are down for hearing.
I'll set this matter for hearing a two weeks from next Monday.
Mr. Smith, the probation officer will be in touch with you people during the course of his investigation to learn what he can about this matter.
Also to learn what kind of a boy Eddie is at home and at school and in his community.
Then on the day of the hearing, we will go into the matter fully and we want you back here at the time of the hearing.
The court will decide then what the next step in the matter is going to be.
Ms. Wallace, representing the detention control unit of the probation department, do you have any report on this board?
We are recommending your honor that the boy remain in juvenile hall as we feel that the home situation is such that it would not be wise for him to return at this time.
As he does in most cases, the judge follows the recommendation of the probation officer, the first step.
Now for two or three weeks, the probation department will sift all the facts in the case.
Then the boy returns to Judge McKesson for a full hearing.
You will see that on the next program in this series, the first time ever on television.
One of the chief aims of this KNXT series is to put the juvenile problem in focus.
You know how the facts have been twisted by scare stories, how the teenager has become a monster in the minds of many.
To learn what people think about the problem, we talked with men and women on the street all around Los Angeles.
And here's what some of them said about kids today.
I think that the kids today are a little bit too wild.
They have too many automobiles to ride around in.
Well, actually, I don't think there's too much difference.
I think most of them are more intelligent than those boys and girls in my day.
I think they are much worse, but yet much brighter.
Well, I think that children have more freedom getting away from the harm.
And we as our parents get away from them considerably.
And we're not as close sniff as we used to be.
We used to be at home more.
We didn't have the transportation of the means of transportation as we have today.
And consequently, the harm is such.
Isn't conducive to people being together as much as they should be.
They allow it considerable liberty.
And we enjoy liberty too as grown ups and imagine.
And the only time we're aware of the problem is when we get the arises.
But when we're personally concerned.
There should be more strict at school and the parents should be more strict at home also.
And that gives them all the things they are doing given them today.
Well, I think these kids that do get into trouble should be sent to a boys camp up in a mountain somewhere
where they could live with a lot of nice young healthy boys with good ideas and they'll probably change.
Well, I think they should have a more understanding with mothers and the fathers.
And they should have shown them and shown them the right way to live.
Charply differing views of a big problem.
Big enough to draw the attention of a special subcommittee of the U.S. Senate.
And recently, there were hearings in Los Angeles given a lot of sensational publicity.
Senator Estes-Keefe, Auburn, in charge of those hearings, talked about the problem and our plans for this series.
First of all, sir, what is the nature of the problem of juvenile crime?
The main difficulty we have in dealing with the length and sea of non-juveniles is the lack of interest, the unwillingness of parents.
Very frequently to accept the fact that there is a problem.
After that, on the part of the average citizen is the big difficulty.
We find juvenile, more intelligent today, more aware of what's going on.
And there, of course, is subjected to more 20th century influences today than ever before.
So while we have the finest bunch of young people, we also have a larger number that's getting in trouble with the police,
that commit more and more violent offenses.
We've had a larger number that have come engaged in addicted to narcotics and affected by the narcotic business.
Well, thanks very much, Senator Keith Lawyer.
A bill I certainly thank you for letting me be on this program.
I just want to commend CBS Television, Channel 2, for taking interest in this very important problem.
It's a series such as this and interest of this kind that will eventually licked the curse of juvenile delinquent city,
getting our people interested so that they know what the facts are.
And you and the station are certain to be commended upon this splendid series.
We hope we can live up to it.
Next week, a full hearing in juvenile court and some of the most dramatic film we've ever made,
Kids in Trouble, telling their own stories.
Also, a visit to the place the kids call CUBE, the grim wall city of San Quentin.
End of the line for those who can't be stopped.
Men like the notorious Carol Chessman, whom we interviewed in Death Row, especially for this series.
That story next week.
This is the KNXT Television Production.
You